# Getting a signed certificate

## Become a Certificate Authority yourself

To be a CA, you create a public/private key pair and issue yourself with a certificate containing this public key.  This cert will be self-signed, meaning you'll be signing it with your private key.

* Launch Linux or other environment that has OpenSSL installed and start a terminal session. In you do not have Linux on your own machine, you can create an AWS EC2 instance and connect to it using SSH.

* We first create a 2048-bit RSA private key for the CA
~~~
openssl genrsa -out myca.key 2048
~~~
The key is created in PEM format, which is printable:
~~~
cat myca.key
~~~

* Now use this to create a certificate signing request (CSR) for the certificate authority (so the CA can sign its own key):
~~~
openssl req -new -key myca.key -out myca.csr
~~~
You will be prompted for identification data for the subject of this signing request. Make up an identity for your "pretend" CA (e.g. Highly Secure Certificates Ltd, or suchlike).<br><br>

* Now, as CA, use your private key to issue a (self-)signed certificate based on the CSR:
~~~
openssl x509 -req -trustout -signkey myca.key -in myca.csr -out myca.crt
~~~
The resulting certificate is valid for just 30 days (default). If you would like it to last longer (e.g. a year), run again with the additional option *-days 365*

## Create keys and a certificate signing request for an application (e.g. web server)

* We now create a 2048-bit RSA private key for the web server
~~~
openssl genrsa -out webserver.key 2048
~~~
* Now use this to create a certificate signing request for the web server:
~~~
openssl req -new -key webserver.key -out webserver.csr
~~~
You'll be prompted for identification data for the subject of the signing request. Make up an identity for your web server here.

## Get your own CA to create and sign the web server certificate 

* Get the CA, using its private key, to sign the server’s CSR file:
~~~
openssl x509 -req -CA myca.crt -CAkey myca.key -CAcreateserial -in webserver.csr -out webserver.crt
~~~
You now have a web server public key, signed by a third party (the CA), in the file *webserver.crt*. You also have the web server's private key in the file *webserver.key* that you generated above.<br><br>

* (Optional) You could alternatively have got your web server to self-sign its certificate. The command for this is:
~~~
openssl x509 -req -in webserver.csr -signkey webserver.key -out webserver_self.crt
~~~
The next step is to configure your web server to be able to locate these keys. 
