# Nginx TLS Configuration (e.g. on AWS EC2 instance)

Here, we similarly configure a Nginx server to listen for HTTPS connections.

## Create an nginx web server

* Create an EC2 instance and connect to it with SSH/PuTTY. 

* Install nginx, enable at startup, and start service.
~~~
sudo yum -y update
sudo yum –y install nginx
sudo chkconfig nginx on
sudo service nginx start
~~~
You should now be able to browse to the public IP address of your instance and see the nginx welcome page.


## Configure TLS on nginx

* Create a directory for the web server certificate and private key you created in part A above. You will need to copy them to your EC2 instance using SCP/WinSCP unless you wish to create new versions.
~~~
sudo mkdir /etc/pki/nginx
~~~

* Copy the certificate and key files to this location 
~~~
sudo cp webserver.key /etc/pki/nginx
sudo cp webserver.crt /etc/pki/nginx
~~~

* Now edit the nginx configuration:
~~~
sudo nano /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
~~~

* Scroll down to the bottom of the file and find the section that begins with:
<pre>
# HTTPS server
</pre>

* Nginx supports having more than one website enabled at the same time, which in effect means listening on a different port for each one. By default, one site is configured to listen on port 80. Your objective is to enable another site to listen on port 443.

* To do this, uncomment the entire section under this heading 
<pre>
    # Settings for a TLS enabled server.
    #
    server {
        listen       443;
    etc…
</pre>

* and make the two changes shown here:
<pre>
       ssl_certificate      /etc/pki/nginx/webserver.crt;
       ssl_certificate_key  /etc/pki/nginx/webserver.key;
</pre>

* Finally, restart nginx:
~~~
sudo service nginx restart
~~~

## Test it

* Edit your instance's security group to allow incoming connections to port 443.<br><br>

* Enter the following in a web browser:
  <pre>https://ip_address</pre>    (replacing *ip_address* with your instance’s Public IP address)<br><br>
  
* You'll get a warning as your certificate is signed by a CA that your browser doesn't trust.  You should be able to view the certificate and verify that it's the one that you created.

