# Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) / Gnu Privacy Guard (GPG)

PGP/GPG provides a confidentiality and authentication service that can be used for storage and messaging applications. In this practical exercise, we will use some of the basic features of an application to do the following:

* Generate a public/private key pair for yourself
* Share your public key with others
* Import public keys belonging to others
* Determine whether you trust the keys of others
* Exchange messages and files with each other that are
  * Encrypted
  * Signed
  * Both encrypted and signed
* Decrypt and/or verify authenticity of received messages and files

The main attraction of PGP/GPG-based public key cryptography tools is that each user is responsible for the management and storage of their own keys without the need to trust a third party.  This decentralised approach is [attractive to people with serious privacy concerns](https://theintercept.com/2014/10/28/smuggling-snowden-secrets/), although [this need for user involvement arguably makes the technology unsuitable as a general encryption tool for the public](https://www.usenix.org/conference/8th-usenix-security-symposium/why-johnny-cant-encrypt-usability-evaluation-pgp-50).

Either way, playing with PGP/GPG is a nice way to learn about public key cryptography and its benefits and limitations. 

## PGP background & versions

PGP was originally designed as an e-mail security application back in 1991, and is largely the product of a single person, Phil Zimmermann.  He has quite a colourful past – see [his personal website](http://www.philzimmermann.com).

PGP has been developed commercially over the years and integrated into various security products for encrypting and signing of email, instant messages, files, devices and whole disks as well as managing keys, enabling virtual private networks (VPNs), and so on. PGP technology has been owned by various companies, including Network Associates, PGP Corporation and, currently, Symantec.

In parallel with this, since the late 1990s, Gnu Privacy Guard (GnuPG or GPG) and a range of other interoperable tools with similar functionality have been developed and maintained.  This compatibility has been made possible by the [OpenPGP specification (RFC 4880)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4880) which defines standard formats for storing keys and encrypted/signed data.

## Key Management

One of the most interesting aspects of PGP/GPG is its distributed approach to key management. There are no key certification authorities; PGP/GPG instead supports a “web of trust”. Every user generates and distributes his/her own public key. Users sign each other’s public keys, creating an interconnected community of PGP/GPG users.

For example, Alice might physically give her public key to Bob. Bob knows Alice personally, so he signs her public key. He then gives the signed key back to her and keeps a copy for himself. When Alice wants to communicate with Carol, Alice sends Carol a copy of the key Bob signed. Now if Carol already has Bob’s public key (she got it some other time) and trusts Bob to certify other people’s keys, she then verifies Bob’s signature on Alice’s key and accepts it as valid. Bob has (indirectly) introduced Alice to Carol.
