# Symmetric Encryption

## Key generation

* Launch Linux or other environment that has OpenSSL installed and start a terminal session.

* Create a new folder and navigate into that folder (using the cd command).

* Generate random numbers of various lengths to be used as encryption keys for various symmetric algorithms. What key length do you need for DES? AES?  Set things up for at least three different symmetric algorithms (look at the OpenSSL documentation to find another algorithm besides DES and AES). To generate a 128-bit key for example, enter the following:
~~~
 openssl rand -out key1 16           # 128 bits is 16 bytes 
~~~
 
## Encryption

* Create a new text file with some plaintext as its body e.g. “The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog”. Save this file in the folder you created.  Choose a file name containing something like “plaintext” or “unencrypted” – e.g. plaintext.txt

* Encrypt the plaintext file using each of the three algorithms chosen, for example:
~~~
openssl enc -aes-128-cbc -e -kfile key1 -in plaintext.txt -out ciphertext_aes.bin
openssl enc -des -e -kfile key2 -in plaintext.txt -out ciphertext_des.bin
etc
~~~

## Decryption

* You may wish to share an encrypted file with a classmate and see if they can decrypt it. You’ll also need to share the key. 

* Try to read a ciphertext file to see if it makes any sense (it shouldn’t):
~~~
cat ciphertext_aes.bin    # (or whatever the filename is)
~~~

* Decrypt each file using commands similar to this:
~~~
openssl enc -aes-128-cbc -d -kfile key1 -in ciphertext_aes.bin -out decrypted.txt
~~~

* Hopefully you can read the decrypted file:
~~~
cat decrypted.txt
~~~

## Effect of Compression on Encryption  (Optional)

* Create a new file, this time with a lot of English language words or similar (say about 10MB in total - [here is an example you can download](archive/bigplaintext.txt). Call it bigplaintext.txt. Encrypt it using an algorithm of your choice to produce bigciphertext.bin. 
Check the size of the encrypted file and compare with the original.
~~~
ls –l        # (this is letter “l”, not number “1”)
~~~
provides a detailed listing of files in the current directory, including their sizes.<br><br>

* Compress both the original text file and the encrypted file. You can use any popular general-purpose compression program such as zip; e.g.
~~~
zip bigplaintext.zip bigplaintext.txt
zip bigciphertext.zip bigciphertext.bin
~~~

* Which resulting zip file is bigger?  Why is this the case?
