# Asymmetric Encryption using RSA

## RSA key generation

* Create a new folder and navigate into that folder (using the *cd* command).

* To generate a public/private key pair for the RSA algorithm, enter the following:   
~~~
openssl genrsa -aes128 -out rsa_private.pem  2048
~~~
You will be prompted for a protecting password.  If you don't want your private key to be protected by a password, remove the flag “-aes128” from the command line above. The number 2048 is the size of the RSA key, in bits.<br><br>

* The public key should be extracted from this to allow it to be shared with others.  You can extract the public key by entering the following:
~~~
openssl rsa -pubout -in rsa_private.pem -out rsa_public.pem
~~~
You should have two files now, a private one and a public one.

## RSA encryption & decryption

* Create a text file with some plaintext as its body”. Save this file in the folder you created.  Choose a file name containing something like “plaintext” or “unencrypted” – e.g. *plaintext.txt*

* Encrypt the plaintext file using your public key (or get a classmate to do it):
~~~ 
openssl rsautl -encrypt -inkey rsa_public.pem -pubin -in plaintext.txt -out ciphertext.bin
~~~
The “-pubin” option indicates that you are using a public key from the specified input key file; the default is to look for a private key.<br><br>

* Decrypt the ciphertext file using your private key:
~~~ 
openssl rsautl -decrypt -inkey rsa_private.pem -in ciphertext.bin -out decrypted.txt
~~~

* Check that the decrypted ciphertext matches the original plaintext:
~~~ 
openssl dgst –sha256 plaintext.txt 
openssl dgst –sha256 decrypted.txt
~~~
(see later section on hash functions for more on the *dgst* command)

## RSA signing & verification

* Encrypt (sign) the plaintext file using your private key:
~~~ 
openssl rsautl -sign -inkey rsa_private.pem -in plaintext.txt -out plaintext_sig.bin
~~~

* Decrypt (verify) the signed file using your public key (or get a classmate to do it):
~~~ 
openssl rsautl -verify -inkey rsa_public.pem -pubin -in plaintext_sig.bin
~~~
The verfied original text will be output to the console.  This can alternatively be directed to a file using “-out filename”.
