#Conditional Code

Sometimes a block of code should only be run under certain conditions. Flow control &#8212; via `if` and `else` blocks &#8212; lets you run code if certain conditions have been met.

```javascript
// Control flow
const foo = true;
const bar = false;

if (bar) {
  conole.log('this code won\'t run');
}

if (bar) {
  conole.log('this code won\'t run');
} else {
  if (foo) {
    conole.log('this code will run');
  } else {
    conole.log('this code would run if foo and bar were both false');
  }
}

```

While curly braces aren't strictly required around single-line `if` statements, using them consistently, even when they aren't strictly required, makes for vastly more readable code.

Be mindful not to define functions with the same name multiple times within separate if/else blocks, as doing so may not have the expected result.

## Truthy and Falsy Things

In order to use flow control successfully, it's important to understand which kinds of values are "truthy" and which kinds of values are "falsy." Sometimes, values that seem like they should evaluate one way actually evaluate another.

```javascript
// Values that evaluate to true
'0';
'any string';
[];  // an empty array
{};  // an empty object
1;   // any non-zero number

```

```javascript
// Values that evaluate to false
'';  // an empty string
NaN; // JavaScript's "not-a-number" variable
null;
undefined;  // be careful -- undefined can be redefined!
```

##Exercise: 'if.js'

Write a program in a file called `if.js` to do the following:

- Define two variables called option1 and option2. 
- Set option1 and option2 to true and false respectively.
- Using an if statement print to the console:
    - "both True"
    - "both False"
    - "option1 only true"
    - "option2 only true"

Change the values manually to generate each of the outputs in turn.

## Switch Statements

Rather than using a series of `if`/`else` blocks, sometimes it can be useful to use a `switch` statement instead. `Switch` statements look at the value of a variable or expression, and run different blocks of code depending on the value.

```javascript
// A switch statement
switch (foo) {
  case 'bar':
    alert('the value was bar -- yay!');
    break;
  case 'baz':
    alert('boo baz :(');
    break;
  default:
    alert('everything else is just ok');
}

```

##Exercise `switch.js`

Write program in a file called `switch.js` containing a switch statement. The switch is to check a variable called `grade` for `good`, `excellent` and `outstanding` strings. If should log to the console a suitable congratulatory message depending on which string is present.

Run the program by declaring and initialising the `grade` variable.

Explore the ES6 string substitution in your solution:

- <https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/01/ES6-Template-Strings?hl=en>



