#Loops

Loops let a block of code run a certain number of times:

```javascript
// A for loop
// logs `try 0`, `try 1`, ..., `try 4`
for (let i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  console.log(`try ` + i);
}
```

Note that in loops, the variable i is not 'scoped' to the loop block even though the keyword `let` is used before the variable name.

## The `for` loop

A `for` loop is made up of four statements and has the following structure:

```javascript
for ([initialisation]; [conditional]; [iteration])  {
 [loopBody]
}
```

The _initialisation_ statement is executed only once, before the loop starts. It gives you an opportunity to prepare or declare any variables.

The _conditional_ statement is executed before each iteration, and its return value decides whether the loop is to continue. If the conditional statement evaluates to a falsey value, then the loop stops.

The _iteration_ statement is executed at the end of each iteration and gives you an opportunity to change the state of important variables. Typically, this will involve incrementing or decrementing a counter and thus bringing the loop closer to its end.

The _loopBody_ statement is what runs on every iteration. It can contain anything. Typically, there will be multiple statements that need to be executed, and should be wrapped in a block ({...}).

Here's a typical `for` loop:

```javascript
// A typical for loop
for (let i = 0, limit = 100; i < limit; i++) {

  // This block will be executed 100 times
  console.log('Currently at ' + i);

  // Note: the last log will be `Currently at 99`
}
```

## The `while` loop

A while loop is similar to an `if` statement, except that its body will keep executing until the condition evaluates to false.

```javascript
while ([conditional])  {
  [loopBody]
}
```

Here's a typical `while` loop:

```javascript
// A typical while loop
let i = 0;

while (i < 100) {
  // This block will be executed 100 times

  console.log(`Currently at ` + i);

  // increment i

  i++;
}
```

Notice that the counter is incrementing within the loop's body. It's possible to combine the conditional and incrementer, like so:

```javascript
// A while loop with a combined conditional and incrementer

let j = -1;

while (++j < 100) {
  // This block will be executed 100 times

  console.log(`Currently at ` + j);
}
```

Notice that the counter starts at -1 and uses the prefix incrementer (++i).

## The `do-while` loop

This is almost exactly the same as the `while` loop, except for the fact that the loop's body is executed at least once before the condition is tested.

```javascript
do  {
  [loopBody]
} while ([conditional])
```
Here's a `do-while` loop:

```javascript
// A do-while loop
do {
  // Even though the condition evaluates to false
  // this loop's body will still execute once.
  console.log(`Hi there!`);
}
while (false);
```

These types of loops are quite rare since only few situations require a loop that blindly executes at least once. Regardless, it's good to be aware of it.

## Breaking and continuing

Usually, a loop's termination will result from the conditional statement not evaluating to true, but it is possible to stop a loop in its tracks from within the loop's body with the break statement.

```javascript
// Stopping a loop
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  if (i == 4) {
    break;
  }
}
```

You may also want to continue the loop without executing more of the loop's body. This is done using the continue statement.

```javascript
// Skipping to the next iteration of a loop
for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  if (i == 5) {
    continue;
  }

  // The following statement will only be executed
  // if the conditional 'something' has not been met
  console.log(`I have been reached`);
}

```

##Exercise: loops.js

In loop.js 

- ceate an array object of 8 elements. 
- insert some random numbers into each position in the array. 
- write a for loop to print each value to the console

Additionally, write code fragments to:

- count and print out the number of elements greater than zero
- compute the average of all the numbers

