# Events

We have been able to hook up the candidate array directly to the donation-service candidate list - and these have stayed in sync. However, the total maintained in the stats viewmodel is not performing in a similiar manner. This is because this is a separate value object (a number) and not a reference to an array.

Fixing this gives us an opportunity to explore events in Aurelia, which are an elegant and simple mechanism for communicating in a clean way between components.

First, in the services folder, introduce a new `messages` file:

## src/services/messages.js

~~~
export class TotalUpdate {
  constructor(total) {
    this.total = total;
  }
}
~~~

This defines a message of interest - namely an update to the total donations received.

In `DonationService` import this class + the event aggregator we need to dispatch the events:

## src/services/donation-service.js

~~~
...
import {TotalUpdate} from './messages';
import {EventAggregator} from 'aurelia-event-aggregator';
...
~~~

The constructor in `DonationService` needs to initialise store the aggregator:

~~~
@inject(Fixtures, EventAggregator)
export default class DonationService {
  ...
  ...
  constructor(data, ea) {
    ...
    ...
    this.ea = ea;
  }
~~~

and finally (for DonationService), we need to generate the event when a total is updated:

~~~
  donate(amount, method, candidate) {
    ...
    ...

    this.total = this.total + parseInt(amount, 10);
    console.log('Total so far ' + this.total);
    this.ea.publish(new TotalUpdate(this.total));
  }
~~~

This is the revised stats view model:


## src/viewmodels/stats.js

~~~
import {inject} from 'aurelia-framework';
import {TotalUpdate} from '../services/messages';
import {EventAggregator} from 'aurelia-event-aggregator';

@inject(EventAggregator)
export class Stats {

  total = 0;

  constructor(ea) {
    ea.subscribe(TotalUpdate, msg => {
      this.total = msg.total;
    });
  }
}
~~~

It has been simplified (removed reference to donation-service), and hooked up to the event aggregator. It listens for `TotalUpdate` events, and stores them in `total` attribute. This is automatically rendered in the view. 

Try this now and verify it works as expected.
